what does a progressive financial system
look like and I want to hear what some
of you think who thinks for example that
we should ban banks from creating money
control over how money is created and
what it's used for is it's a democratic
issue you currently have the banking
sector profit-seeking banking sector you
know not accountable to anybody other
than themselves
who are creating up to 200 billion
pounds a year of new spending power and
deciding where in the economy that goes
monetary reformers believe that our
entire money supply should be for the
benefit of the public and should never
be created by a private organization as
debt democratizing the money supply what
that means is putting the power to issue
and allocate money back into hands of
people that government tells me that we
raised 14 trillion dollars in a year to
bail out the banks that's the way to
change what we have take all power and
all freedoms away from the people and
collect everything into the hands of one
small group would absolutely
what's been interesting out of all this
I suppose is the question of democracy
that's been opened up very starkly in
Europe though that you have a government
of bankers essentially imposed on you
bankers who more or less got us into
this mess and then you say okay bankers
are the people who therefore gonna get
is actually and its deadly they're gonna
run your your country now if there's a
serious question democracy that's opened
up here by the way the banking crisis
drove more than a hundred million people
back into poverty the mortality
statistics of people who go into poverty
rise hugely for a whole range of reasons
so the banking crisis isn't just about
becoming poorer it was about killing
people as well time and time again over
the last thirty years we've seen private
debts being transformed into into public
debts and the ultimately the price of
that debt is paid by by the public in
the in the debtor country so what we're
left with is a financial system since
the early 70s that has no fixed exchange
rates that suddenly has increasingly
open financial borders that has central
banks having to manage without having
any control because there's nothing here
where the gold used to be chaotically
they have to ease quantitatively they
have to lend as a lender of last resort
throughout history
monetary systems were designed to give
the dominant international power an
advantage and this power is fiercely
defended and expanded on
and I flee intelligence from an
incredible bogeyman
an American flag is burned at the height
of the demonstration both President
Johnson and Francisco Franco were filled
in public projects had a strain on
spanish-american relation
utter in the park pottery mother
I want Americans in all the world to
know America has no regard for
conventions of war or rules or morality
Jackie Nova Rome the power to create
money is so you know so powerful
you've got to be very concerned about
who has that power